README.md, before:

# Chess Race

A multiplayer chess plugin for Trackmania that mashes chess skills with Trackmania skills!

## Quick Disclaimer
I did use claude code to HELP with the development of this (I still wrote most of it). Although I utilized code AI in the initial creation to quicken development, I will not be using it for any future updates since I will not have to test all the bugs on my own with two computers set up next to each other. I will mainly be relying on the community to submit bug reports and give suggestions for future updates.

## Features

#### Chess Race
- Each square on the chess board is assigned a Trackmania map
- When you want to capture a piece, both players race on that square's map
- Fastest time wins the capture!
- Uses pre-built map packs from TMX (I have a default map pack with 64 campaign maps. I will try to keep it updated with the newest campaigns.)

### Multiplayer Features

- **Lobby System** - Create or join lobbies to play with friends
- **Password Protection** - Secure your lobbies with passwords
- **Rematch System** - Instantly start a new game after finishing
- **Real-time Racing** - See your opponent's live race time as they compete
- **Move History** - Full game history with proper chess notation (e.g., "Nf3", "Qxe5")

### Audio Integration

- **Built-in Sounds** - Uses the official Chess.com sounds

**NOT YET IMPLEMENTED**
- **Custom Sounds** - Option to use your own sound effects (see [AUDIOREADME.md](AUDIOREADME.md))

### Visual Features

- **Map Thumbnails** - See preview images of maps on each square (Chess Race mode)
- **Race Results** - View race times after returning to the board
- **Color Customization** - Customize board colors and piece styles

## How to Play

### Starting a Game

1. Click "Chess Race" in the Openplanet menu
2. Connect to the server (automatic)
3. **Create a Lobby:**
   - Click "Create New Lobby"
   - Choose a game mode (Chess Race or Capture Race)
   - Set a password (optional)
   - For Chess Race: Select a map pack ID (default: 7237)
   - Click "Create Lobby"
4. **Or Join a Lobby:**
   - Browse available lobbies
   - Click "Join" on any open lobby
5. Wait for both players, then click "Start Game" (host only)

### Playing Chess

- Click on a piece to select it
- Valid moves are highlighted
- Click on a highlighted square to move
- **Making Captures:**
  - Click on an opponent's piece to attempt capture
  - Both players race on the assigned map
  - Fastest time wins the capture!

### Race Mechanics

1. **Race Challenge** - Window opens showing map info
2. **Load the Map** - Map automatically loads and opens
3. **Race!** - Timer starts when the in game timer starts
4. **Finish** - One chance to set fastest time
5. **Return to Board** - Race results shown, board updates automatically

## Game Modes Explained

### Chess Race Mode
- 64 maps (if the mappack does not have enough maps, it will reuse maps)
- Maps are synchronized between both players
- Strategic depth: some squares have different styles/difficulties of map
- Uses TMX map packs for curated map selection

## Settings

Access settings via integrated plugin settings menu (dev settings in openplanet menu):

### Audio
- Enable/disable sound effects
- Toggle between game sounds and custom sounds
- Adjust volume for each sound type

### Visual
- Customize board colors
- Adjust window size
- Toggle developer mode for debug info

## Contributing

This project is open-source, but I'm trying to keep it running at all times. DM me on discord, or ping me in one of the various trackmania discord.
My discord is: itsgromit

## Credits

- Thanks to Fort_TM for putting up with my questions during development
- Special thanks to Ultimate_Life for the help with testing and creating the ideas for the plugin

## License

The plugin AND the server are both licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0.

## Support

For bugs or feature requests, please open an issue on GitHub.

## Known Bugs

The board renderer sometimes glitches out when the main window is a certain ratio size. (I don't know what it is exactly). I think this is something due to how ImGUI works and is not something I can fix easily without rewriting the board renderer.

---

**Enjoy playing Chess Race! 🏁♟️**

Commit message:

Changed from chess.com sounds to lichess sounds Updated to use local pngs for chess assets and logo

README.md, after:

# Chess Race

A multiplayer chess plugin for Trackmania that mashes chess skills with Trackmania skills!

## Quick Disclaimer
I did use claude code to HELP with the development of this (I still wrote most of it). Although I utilized code AI in the initial creation to quicken development, I will not be using it for any future updates since I will not have to test all the bugs on my own with two computers set up next to each other. I will mainly be relying on the community to submit bug reports and give suggestions for future updates.

## Features

#### Chess Race
- Each square on the chess board is assigned a Trackmania map
- When you want to capture a piece, both players race on that square's map
- Fastest time wins the capture!
- Uses pre-built map packs from TMX (I have a default map pack with 64 campaign maps. I will try to keep it updated with the newest campaigns.)

### Multiplayer Features

- **Lobby System** - Create or join lobbies to play with friends
- **Password Protection** - Secure your lobbies with passwords
- **Rematch System** - Instantly start a new game after finishing
- **Real-time Racing** - See your opponent's live race time as they compete
- **Move History** - Full game history with proper chess notation (e.g., "Nf3", "Qxe5")

### Audio Integration

- **Built-in Sounds** - Uses official lichess sounds (they are open source)

**NOT YET IMPLEMENTED**
- **Custom Sounds** - Option to use your own sound effects (see [AUDIOREADME.md](AUDIOREADME.md))

### Visual Features

- **Map Thumbnails** - See preview images of maps on each square (Chess Race mode)
- **Race Results** - View race times after returning to the board
- **Color Customization** - Customize board colors and piece styles

## How to Play

### Starting a Game

1. Click "Chess Race" in the Openplanet menu
2. Connect to the server (automatic)
3. **Create a Lobby:**
   - Click "Create New Lobby"
   - Choose a game mode (Chess Race or Capture Race)
   - Set a password (optional)
   - For Chess Race: Select a map pack ID (default: 7237)
   - Click "Create Lobby"
4. **Or Join a Lobby:**
   - Browse available lobbies
   - Click "Join" on any open lobby
5. Wait for both players, then click "Start Game" (host only)

### Playing Chess

- Click on a piece to select it
- Valid moves are highlighted
- Click on a highlighted square to move
- **Making Captures:**
  - Click on an opponent's piece to attempt capture
  - Both players race on the assigned map
  - Fastest time wins the capture!

### Race Mechanics

1. **Race Challenge** - Window opens showing map info
2. **Load the Map** - Map automatically loads and opens
3. **Race!** - Timer starts when the in game timer starts
4. **Finish** - One chance to set fastest time
5. **Return to Board** - Race results shown, board updates automatically

## Game Modes Explained

### Chess Race Mode
- 64 maps (if the mappack does not have enough maps, it will reuse maps)
- Maps are synchronized between both players
- Strategic depth: some squares have different styles/difficulties of map
- Uses TMX map packs for curated map selection

## Settings

Access settings via integrated plugin settings menu (dev settings in openplanet menu):

### Audio
- Enable/disable sound effects
- Toggle between game sounds and custom sounds
- Adjust volume for each sound type

### Visual
- Customize board colors
- Adjust window size
- Toggle developer mode for debug info

## Contributing

This project is open-source, but I'm trying to keep it running at all times. DM me on discord, or ping me in one of the various trackmania discord.
My discord is: itsgromit

## Credits

- Thanks to Fort_TM for putting up with my questions during development
- Special thanks to Ultimate_Life for the help with testing and creating the ideas for the plugin

## License

The plugin AND the server are both licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0.

## Support

For bugs or feature requests, please open an issue on GitHub.

## Known Bugs

The board renderer sometimes glitches out when the main window is a certain ratio size. (I don't know what it is exactly). I think this is something due to how ImGUI works and is not something I can fix easily without rewriting the board renderer.

---

**Enjoy playing Chess Race! 🏁♟️**
